.Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)
Application layer protocol allowing immediate generation of IP address. Most DHCP servers provide other paramters such as default gateway and DNS servers
used on the newtork.

.DHCP Packet Structure
1.OpCode: Determines DHCP request or DHCP response
2.Hardware Type:  Type of hardware address (10MB ethernet, IEEE 802)
3.Hardware Length:  Length of hardware address
4.Hops: used by relay agents to find DHCP server
5.Transaction ID : random number used to pair DHCP requests and responses
6.Seconds Elapsed : seconds since client first request DHCP server
7.Flags : types of traffic DHCP client can accept (broadcast, unicast etc)
8.Client IP address: client IP 
9.Your IP: IP address offered by DHCP server
10.Server IP: DHCP server address
11.Gateway IP address: address to default network gateway
12.CLient hardware address: client MAC adress
13.Server Host Name: Servers host name (optional)
14.Bootfile: bootfile used for DHCP (optional)
15.Options: used to expand DHCP packet features 

.Initialization Process
4 packet process known as DORA. Discover Offer Request Acknowledge
Discover: Client starts without IP because it is requesting one from server sent to 255.255.255.255 (broadcast address) attempting to find DHCP server. DHCP relies
on UDP since speed is essential in assigning an IP address.
Offer: Since client does not have an IP address the DHCP server will atttempt to communicate with device via the MAC address through ARP. If this fails the server
will broadcast offer to communicate. The server offers an IP address in the Your IP field with the servers IP address in the net Server IP field.
Request: The client needs to respond with a request packet because technically the initalization process is incomplete and the client does not officially have an IP
even though it was offered one. The transaction ID is the same as the first two packets showing these are all part of the same process. The server IP and client IP fields
are now filled.
Acknowledge: DHCP sends client an ACK packet and records information in its database. The client now has an IP address and can now communicate on the network.

.Inlease Renewal
When an address is assigned it is leased to the client.When the lease expires the client must perform a truncated DORA process to reclaim its IP address called
an inlease renewal. The Discovery and Offer packets are not needed since the client has found the server and already been offered an IP address leaving 
only the request and acknowledge part of the process.

The only option required in a DHCP packet is the Message type option, there are 8 message types:
1.Discover
2.Offer
3.Request
4.Acknowledge ACK
5.Decline : Sent by client to server to indicate invalid parameters within packet
6.Not Acknowledge NAK : Sent by client to the server to refuse request for configuration parameters
7.Release:  Sent by client to server to cancel lease by releasing configuration paramters
8.Inform: Sent by client to server to ask for configuration paramters when client already has IP address

.DHCPv6

The above structure does not ahve space for ipv6 addressing so RFC 3315 was created. Much simpler than DHCPv4 since its not built upon BOOTP
DORA is replaced by SARR

Solicit:  Initial packet sent to special multicast address (ff02::1:2) attempting to locate DHCP servers
Advertise:  Available server responds directly to client to give addressing and configuration information
Request:  Client sends formal request to server via multicast
Reply:  Servers send all requested information directly to client and process is complete

SA and RR both have seperate identical transactions IDs

Ports 546 and 547 are default for DHCPv6 communication

.Domain Name System (DNS)
One of the most crucial protocols this ties domain names such as https://google.com with an IP address. When we want to connect with a device and we don't know
its IP address with connect via its domain name. DNS servers store a database of resource records of IP:DNS namemappings which they share with clients and other
DNS servers.

.Packet Structure
DNS ID Structure: Associates DNS queries with responses
Query/Response: Denotes if its a DNS query or response
OpCode: defines type of query contained in message
Authortative Answers (AA):  If this value is set in a response packet indicates response is from name server with authority over domain
Truncation (TC): indicates response with truncated because packet was to large
Recursion Desired (RD): when value set in query indicates DNS client wants recursive query if the target name server doesn't contain the information requested
Recursion Available( (RA): if value is set, this name server supports recursive queries
Reserved (Z): defined by RFC1035 to be set to all zeroes, can be used as extension of the RCode field
Response Code (RCode): Used in DNS response to indicate presence of any errors
Question Count: # of entries in Question section
Answer Count: # of entries in Answer section
Name Server (Authority) Record Count: # of name server records in the Authority section 
Additional Records Count: # of other resource records in the Addition Information section 
Questions Section: variable sized section containing one or more queires for information to be sent to DNS server
Answers Section: variable sized section carrying one more resource records that answer queries
Authority Section: variable sized section containing resource records pointing to authoritative name servers to be used in continuing the resolution process
Additional Information Section: variable sized section containg resource recrods that hold addtional information related to the query that is not absolutely neceessary to answer the query

A simple DNS query is a two packet process; a request to the server and a response to the client.

.DNS Questions
Some common Type fields used in DNS communications indicate resource record types the packet is for.
Value Type  Description
1     A     IPv4 host address
2     NS    Authoritative name server
5     CNAME Canonical name for an alias
15    MX    Mail Exchange
16    TXT   Text String
28    AAAA  IPv6 host address
251   IFXR  Incremental zone transfer
252   AFXR  Full zone tranfser

All DNS resource record types can be found at :  http://www.iana.org/assignments/dns-parameters/

.DNS Recursion
When a DNS server needs to find an IP address it queries another DNS server on behalf of the original client. This process
is known as recursion. Recursion can have multiple levels before an answer is found.

.DNS Zone Transfers
A DNS zone is a namespace or group of DNS names that a DNS server has been delegated to manage. If the network grows it could add
a second DNS server to handle another portion such as in the case of a mail server and the new DNS server would be the authority
for that mail subdomain.

A zone transfer occurs when zone data is transferred between two devices typically out of desire for redundancy. There are two types
of zone transfers: 

Full zone transfer (AFXR) send an entire zone between devices
Incremental zone transfer (IXFR) send only a portion of the zone information

Zone transfers rely on TCP for reliability due to the amount of data being transferred.

.HTTP

Most popular traffic wise on the internet. http://www.google.com/ as an example. HTTP begins with a TCP 3way handshake on port 80 (system port for HTTP). Once
communication is established a GET packet requests Uniform Resource Indicator as / and the HTTP version. the client sends information
to the webserver such as the browser (User-Agent), language (Accept-languages) and cookie information. The server uses the inforamtion
to detmine which data to return to the client for accessibility. The server responds to the GET request with a TCP ACK. Since there are
no HTTP request/response headers these packets will show in Wireshark as TCP packets. The POST method uploads data to the server and
server responds with ACK.

.Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP

Used by platforms such as Microsoft Exchange and Postfix, SMTP is the standard for sending email. At the user level, the mailbox
is accessed with a mail user agent (MUA) which is an email client like Outlook or Gmail. When email is sent, it is transferred
from the MUA to a mail transfer agent (MTA) also known as a mail server. Popular mail server applications are Postfix and Microsoft Excahnge
If the email is destined outside the network a DNS query is required to find the recipient mail server. Mail Server has several
components including a Mail Delivery Agent (MDA) and Mail Submission Agent (MSA).

Sending email from client to mail server involves a TCP handshake. Then the server sends a service banner to the client
acknowledging it is ready to receive commands and also it identifies itself with server specs. Client responds with EHLO since
server is capable of Extended SMTP (ESMTP). Several more back and forths and the MAIL, RCPT and DATA command are sent and ACk following
with <CR><LF>.<CR><LF>.

Local Server to Remote Server
An email server locates another server by using a special DNS record type known as a mail exchange MX record. Mail servers
don't care whether the message is coming from an email client or another SMTP server, the rules and procedures are the same.
Retrieving email has different implementations based on need cases. 








