.Reconnaissance
Attackers first step is often to perform in-depth research on the target system. Footprinting then scanning IP address or DNS name for open ports or running services. Scanning signals which devices are alive and reachable and what ports are listening.

SYN Scan
[synscan.pcapng]

Sends SYN packets on range of ports to see which might be listening and willing to communicate with outside devices. Nmap is a popular robust networking-scanning tool that can perform about any kind of scan one can imagine. Any SYN ACK response from a SYN
Scan signals the port is open and running a service. Most likey 5 packets will be exchanged [SYN,SYN ACK] and 3 retransmits.

.Operating System Fingerprinting

Passive Fingerprinting
[passiveosfinger printing.pcapng]

Analyzing packets that are being sent from target device and looking at default values could give a clue on the type of OS the target is running on.

Protocol  Field     Default   Platform
IP        TTL       64        NMap, BSD, OSX, Linux
                    128       Novell, Windows
                    255       Cisco IOS, Palm OS, Solaris

IP        DNFrag    Set       BSD, OSX, Linux, Novell, Windows, Palm OS, Solaris
                    NSet      Nmap, Cisco IOS
                   
TCP       MSS       0         Nmap
                    1440-60   Windows,Novell
                    1460      BSD, OSX, Linux, Solaris
TCP       WSize     1024-4096 Nmap
                    65535     BSD, oSX
                    Variable  Linux
                    16384     Novell
                    4128      Cisco IOS
                    24820     Solaris
                    Variable  Window
TCP       SackOK    Set       Linux,Windows,OSX, OpenBSD
                    NSet      Nmap, FreeBSD, Novell, Cisco IOS, Solaris

There are many variations and by no means is this list exhaustive or conclusive.

Active FingerPrinting
[activeosfingerprinting.pcapng]

Instead of listening for packets the attacker crafts specific packets to get certain replies in hopes of revealing the OS. NMap
creates packets to ellicit certain responses and checks details with a database to build a profile of the target.

.Traffic Manipulation

ARP Cache Poisoning
A MITM attack , ARP packets are crafted to redirect traffic to an attacker who then relays traffic to the original destination.
An attacker sends an ARP unicast packet directly to the target even though it should be broadcasted to all devices. The Routers IP address is listed rather than its own. Then attacker sends a packet with an ARP reply and communication now occurs between attacker and target. Since this attack is subtle you typically need an IDS to help flag these attacks or software that monitors changes in ARP tables.

.Session Hijacking
[sessinonhijacking.pcapng]

Using ARP poisoning an attacker can learn information about session through cookie information stored in packets.

.Remote-Access Trojan
[ratinfected.pcapng]

Using an IDS to follow an alert we follow the hexadecimal content that triggered the warning. We notice a conversation between two devices and follow the TCP stream and notice some add behavior and system information. This isn't normal. We see an odd phrase being sent over and over and search packets for this string leading us to  conversation where the attacked device is sending data to the attacker. Looking at the data content we notice a JFIF string which a google search says is the beginning of JPG files. It seems that the infected device is sending pictures to the attacker but of what? We save the file and try to view it however it cannot be read, the file we saved had some extra data from the malware and not specifically from the JPG file so after removing this data with a hexeditor we are able to view the jpg. They are screenshots of the desktop. 

This scenario is an example of a framework an intrusion analyst could use when analyzing an IDS alert:
-Examine the alert and signature it created
-Confirm whether the signature is a match in the proper context
-Examine traffic to understand what the attacker is trying to accomplish
-Begin containment of the issue before any more sensitive information leaks from the compromised target.

.Exploit Kit and Ransomware
[cryptowall4_c2.pcapng, ek_to_cryptowall4.pcapng]


