.Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)

TCP is ultimately responsible for end to end reliability. RFC 793 handles data sequencing and error correction. Considered connection oriented because
it establishes a formal connection before sending data.

.TCP Packet Structure
Source Port: Port used to transmit data
Destination Port : Port receiving data
Sequence Port:  number used to identify TCP segment. used to ensure parts of stream are not missing
Acknowledgement Port: The sequence number of the next packet from the other device
Flags:  URG, ACK, PSH, RST, SYN, FIN, flags for identifying the type of TCP packet
Window Size : size of TCP receiver bufer in bytes
Checksum : used to ensure contents of packet are right
Urgent Pointer: if URG is set, this field is examined to determine where the CPU should start reading the data in this packet
Options : various options can be added in tcp packet


65,535 ports available. two groups
system ports 1-1023 : well-known established services use these ports, SSH HTTP FTP
other ports 1024-65k

only one service at a time can use a port so system usually chooses at random

.TCP 3 way handshake
All communication starts with a handshake. It ensures the recipient host is up and running and also listening and ready for the transmission.
1.SRC sends SYN packet to DEST. This includes a maximum segment size and intial sequence number
2.DEST responds SYN ACK packet back to SRC with the acknowledgement number filled as the initial sequence number
3.SRC sends ACK back to DEST

Communication commences.

.TPC Teardown
A four way method to close TCP connections gracefully
1.SRC sends a FIN ACK packet
2.DEST responds ACK packet
3.DEST sends FIN ACK packet
4.SRC responds ACK packet

.TCP reset
A RST packet can be sent to abrupty end connection due to various reasons such as a port unconfigured for communication or an interruption due to a port scan. A RST
contains nothing more than an RST flag and ACK flag.

.User Datagram Protocol (UDP)
UDP is another layer 4 protocol however it lacks the reliability TCP offers in favor of speediness of transmission. A connectionless based protocol it is a 
best effort function with no guarantees of receipt by DEST. There is no formal handshake to initiate connection or closing of connection. Protocols that rely on UDP
such as DNS and DHCP have built-in reliability services  or use ICMP to make connections a bit more reliable.

.UDP Packet Structure
1.Source Port:  Port used to transmit data
2.Destination Port: Port used to receive data
3.Packet Length:  Length of packet in bytes
4.Checksum: Uses to ensure UDP header and data arrives intact and error free



