Wireless networks operate on a spectrum, in the U.S. there are 11 available channels. A packet sniffer can only listen to one channel at a time however there are programs that rapidly switch channels to collect data such as Kismit. There is a slight overlap between channels so if you are listening on channel 1 you might catch packets on channel 2. Typically networks coexist in same area are designed to use nonoverlapping channels 1, 6 and 11.

Wireless signal interface isn't something that can be done using Wireshark, you would need a spectrum analyzer. A cost-effective option is MetaGeek's wi-spy usb device that monitors the entire 802.11 spectrum fror signals.

Wireless Card Modes
-Managed Mode:  wireless client connects directly to wireless access point (WAP); the driver associated with NIC relies on WAP to manage communication process
-Adhoc Mode: wireless network setup where devices connect directly to each other; two wireless clients communicating with each other share responsibilites that a WAP would handle
-Master Mode: higher-end wireless NICs support this mode allowing the NIC to work with software to allow computer to be a WAP for other devices
-Monitor Mode: wireless client stops transmitting and receiving data nd only listens to packets flying through air. known as RFMON mode

.802.11 Packet Structure
The main difference between wireless and wired is the header. The 802 header contains extra information and the medium over which it is transmitted.

The three types of 802 packets are:
-Management: establishes connectivity between hosts at layer 2. subtype sinclude authentication, association, beacon packets.
-Control: allow for delivery mangement and congestion etc. subtypes include request-to-send and clear-to-send packets.
-Data: contain actual data and only types of packets that can be forwarded from wireless to wired networks.

[80211beacon.pcapng]
Beacon packets are one of the most informative packets sent from as a broadcast packet from a WAP to notify listeners WAP is available and to set the guidelines needed for two-way communication.

In the management frame header:
Timestamp: Time packet is sent.
Beacon Interval: Retransmission interval
Capabilities Information: Hardware capabilities of WAP
SSID parameter set: SSID broadcast by WAP
Supported rates: data transfer rates supported by WAP
DS Parameter set: channel WAP is broadcasting on

Each WAP has unique identifying name called basic service set identifier (BSS ID).

Filtring specific wireless packet types:
[Table 13-1 pg.422]

.Wireless Security
Original security was Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) , several weaknesses found and it was retired for Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA) and the more secure WPA2 standards, still fallible yet more secure than WEP.

WPA authentication with TKIP encryption:
Beacon frame
Probe request
Probe response
2 authentication packets
Assocation request
Assocation response
4 key messages aka WPA handshake. 2 challenges and 2 responses.
Data
