
Packet analysis uses network card to read all traffic not just traffic addressed to yourself.
Commercial vs OS packet sniffers vary in terms of non-traditional or newer protocols being recognized. Commercial tend to have better reporting while OS features can be built upon and shared with community. [Wireshark, Omnidumo] GUI while tcpdump more advanced yet CLI

OSI 7 Layer Model:

    Name          Format
1.  Physical      Bits
2.  Data Link     Frames
3.  Network       <---where Packets reside
4.  Transport     Segments
5.  Session       Data
6.  Presentation  Data
7.  Application   Data

1.  Medium used as foundation to faciliate transfer.
2.  Transports data across the physical layer. Provides schema to identify devices via MAC addresses etc. 
    Bridges/switches live in this layer.
3.  Responsible for routing between physical devices. Layer is responsible for logical addressing through IP addresses and breaking data segments into packets. 
    Routers live in this layer.
4.  Provides reliable transportation services through TCP(connection-based), UDP(connectionless) etc. Error detection/correction occur at this level.
    Firewalls and proxy servers can exist on this level.
5.  Initates and ends communication between devices gracefully(usually).
6.  Transforms data into application-readable format. Encoding/decoding and encryption/decryption occur on this plane.
7.  Surface layer seen and used by layer displayed by UI for a preferably good UX.

Usual Protocals per Layer:

1.  Wired/Wireless
2.  Ethernet, Token Ring, FDDI, 
3.  IP, IPX 
4.  TCP, UDP, SPX
5.  NetBIOS, SAP, SDP, NWLink
6.  AppleTalk ASCII,JPEG, File Extensions etc
7.  HTTP, SMTP, FTP, Telnet

Each layer can only communicate with the ones above and below it. Each layer is unique with the protocols meaning no other layer provides such services. 
Data is transfered between layers through encapsulation in a format understandable by adjacent layers. This protocol data unit (PDU) changes and grows as it is passed through the stack with additional headers and footers added by each member.

Sender
7.  [http]
6.  [http]
5.  [http]
4.  [http][tcp]
3.  [http][tcp][ip]
2.  [http][tcp][ip][ethernet]
1.  Sent across medium.

Receiver strips headers off at each layer in reverse order.

Network Hardware

Hubs: Device which receives data on one port and repeats data on every port. Each receiving client examines MAC address to determine if data is for them. Discards if not. Normally half-duplex, cannot receive and send simultaneously.

Switches: Similar to hub however sends data only to intended recipient. Some can be managed by vendor software such as Cisco products, provides in-depth look at port usage etc. Stores layer2 connected devices address in CAM tables which is referenced everytime to send only to the specified destiination.

Routers: Responsibile for directing flow between networks. Layer 3 addresses synonymous with IP addresses. Depending on networks the amount of routers can vary.

Traffic classifications:

Broadcasting: Packets sent to all ports regardless of hub or switch. Layer 2 and 3 utilize this function differently. Layer 2 MAC address ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff is the broadcast address. All packets sent to this address are broadcasted to entire network. Layer 3 has broadcast address but varies depending on the networking range in use. The highest IP address in range is reserved for the broadcast range. The travel distance of the broadcast packets is determined by the broadcast domain which is the set of computers in network not needed to communicate via a router.

Multicasting: Transmits packet from single source to multiple destinations with intent of optimizing bandwith utilization. This optimization occurs by replicating data fewer times along path to destination. This implementation is highly dependent on implementation on individual protocols. Primary method is joining packet recipients to multicast group which is how IP multicasting works. This ensures packets cannot be transmitted to computers to which packets are not destined.

Unicast: Communication from one computer directly to another. Example would be a device wanting to communicate with a web server. This is a 1 to 1 connection.




